>> New research suggests that
using binaural beats to entrain
your brain may not only heal
but may also induce out-of-body
experiences.
This is Gaia News.
[THEME MUSIC]
Brainwave entrainment
is a method
of using pulsing sounds
to stimulate the brain
into entering a specific state.
It has grown in popularity of
late as evidenced by the ever
increasing number of available
brainwave entrainment
recordings.
Many such recordings are
created using binaural beats--
two tones with slightly
different frequencies.
Now, research is showing
the healing benefits
of listening to these binaural
beats on both body and mind.
Karen Newell is an
author and co-founder
of Sacred Acoustics,
a leading creator
of brainwave entrainment
audio recordings.
>> Binaural beats are delivered
by giving you one signal in one
ear, a slightly different
signal in the other ear.
And the result is
a wavering sound.
Binaural beats are
effective in the sense
that they are affecting the
brain wave state of the brain.
So our brains put on
an electric signal,
it's measured with an EEG device
with the names of delta, theta,
alpha.
We're used to hearing
those words; beta
that's the state that when
we're walking and we're talking.
That's the state that
really prevents us
from getting into a
quieter state of awareness.
So binaural beats are
designed to bring us
into those lower brain wave
states, so help the brain get
into a quieter state that's
associated with sleep,
with meditation, and with focus.
>> People experience a wide
range of responses to binaural
beats, from deep relaxation
to enhanced intuition,
lucid dreams, and even
connection with the souls
of departed loved ones.
Another fascinating effect
increasingly reported to Newell
and her team is the
out-of-body experience.
>> So an out of body experience
is when your awareness
literally leaves
your physical body,
gives you that firsthand
personal direct experience that
there is an energy that exists
outside of your body that
isn't necessarily
reliant on your body.
Out-of-body experiences can
happen incredibly spontaneously
without anyone even realizing.
And other people will cultivate
them very consciously.
And I've had reports from
Sacred Acoustics listeners
who write to me and say that
after about 18 months or so
of regular, almost daily,
listening to our recordings,
they've started to have these
out-of-body experiences.
>> What is it about these
binaural beats that engender
such experiences?
>> The real sweet spot of
binaural beats is that border
between awake and asleep.
We're all in this state,
the hypnagogic state
every night as we're falling
asleep we go into this state.
Every morning, as we wake up.
This is what binaural
beats can do,
can bring you into that state.
This is where the body
becomes extremely relaxed
and the mind still
stays awake and alert.
That's where you can start to
make visualizations and imagine
your body's energy doing
different things that
can help to engender
an out-of-body state.
Anything that gets your mind
off of the physical body
is the mechanism for having
your energetic body actually
move away from it.
You can also use
that hypnagogic state
to really reprogram your
deep-seated belief system.
>> For Newell and other
proponents of brainwave
entrainment, the implications
of this kind of experience are
profound.
>> The real vision of Sacred
Acoustics is to help people get
in touch with their own infinite
minds, explore with them,
get behind those
racing thoughts,
find out who you truly are,
the part of you that is
your essence.
And we each can find
out for ourselves, this
that we are spiritual beings, a
very important spiritual being
that's connected to the
larger one mind or one heart,
one consciousness
that connects us all.
And as we find that
connection, we're
able to find real meaning
and purpose in our lives.
>> For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.